ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, before:

Please do not use issues to ask questions. For questions use either [H2O Stream Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/h2ostream).

GitHub issues are used for:

* Bug reporting.
* Feature/enhancement requests and discussion.

Before submitting a new issue, please make sure a similar issue is not already present in the tracker.

Please make sure to fill out the form below as best as you can. This will help both you and us.

------------------------

### Environment (for bugs)

- **OS platform, distribution and version (e.g. Linux Ubuntu 16.04)**:
- **Installed from (source or binary)**:
- **Version**: 
- **Python version (optional)**:

Please refer to Google for information on how to obtain the above on your platform.

### Description

Describe the problem or enhancement/feature here as clearly and concisely as possible.

For bugs, please provide an [MCVE](https://stackoverflow.com/help/mcve) and all the logs/source code you can. Large log and source code files should be attached separately instead of being pasted in the GitHub issue.

For information on how to write enhancements/feature requests please check our [CONTRIBUTING document](CONTRIBUTING.md#enhancements-and-feature-requests).

Commit message:

remove reference to Google Stream, add reference to SO for questions

ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, after:

Please do not use issues to ask questions. Post your questions on [StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/datatable+python) using the ``[datatable] [python]`` tags.

GitHub issues are used for:

* Bug reporting.
* Feature/enhancement requests and discussion.

Before submitting a new issue, please make sure a similar issue is not already present in the tracker.

Please make sure to fill out the form below as best as you can. This will help both you and us.

------------------------

### Environment (for bugs)

- **OS platform, distribution and version (e.g. Linux Ubuntu 16.04)**:
- **Installed from (source or binary)**:
- **Version**: 
- **Python version (optional)**:

Please refer to Google for information on how to obtain the above on your platform.

### Description

Describe the problem or enhancement/feature here as clearly and concisely as possible.

For bugs, please provide an [MCVE](https://stackoverflow.com/help/mcve) and all the logs/source code you can. Large log and source code files should be attached separately instead of being pasted in the GitHub issue.

For information on how to write enhancements/feature requests please check our [CONTRIBUTING document](CONTRIBUTING.md#enhancements-and-feature-requests).
