
.. include:: definitions.rst


Version 0.11.0
==============

Frame
-----

- |api| A Python list of integers containing only 0s and 1s will now
  produce an ``int8`` column instead of ``bool8``. In order to create a
  boolean column supply a list of Trues and Falses, or force the
  boolean stype with the constructor parameter ``stype=bool``::

      assert dt.Frame([False, True]) == dt.bool8
      assert dt.Frame([0, 1]).stype == dt.int8
      assert dt.Frame([0, 1], stype=bool).stype == dt.bool8
      assert dt.Frame([0, 1, 2]).stype == dt.int32

- |fix| A list of frames now displays properly in a Jupyter lab (#2222).

- |fix| Mixing reduce and map operations should no longer produce error
  "Unable to create a nested thread team" (#2242).

- |fix| Fix rare deadlock when creating a Frame from a python list. The
  deadlock occurred only on ppc64le and datatable compiled with gcc version
  4.8 or earlier (#2250).

- |fix| Fixed an error when a frame with a computed boolean column was
  saved into csv (#2253).


General
-------

- |api| Properties ``dt.bool8.min`` and ``dt.bool8.max`` are now equal to
  ``False`` and ``True`` respectively, instead of integers 0 and 1 (#2231).

- |enh| :func:`fread` is now able to read Jay files even if the file doesn't
  have the ``.jay`` extension.

- |fix| :func:`frame_column_data_r` now works properly with virtual columns
  (#2269).


FTRL model
----------

- |fix| Fix feature importance normalization to [0, 1] in FTRL (#2224).

- |fix| Resetting an untrained FTRL model now doesn't result in a segfault (#2226).

- |enh| The ``id`` column in FTRL model ``.labels`` frame now has stype ``int32``
  instead of ``bool`` for binomial and regression models.

- |enh| ``.nepochs``, the number of epochs to train the model, can now be a float
  rather than an integer number.
