ci/README.md, before:

<!---
  This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
  License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
  file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.
-->

# Outline of the release process

Current version of `datatable` can be found in the `datatable/__version__.py`
file. In the description below, this version will be denoted as
`{MAJOR}.{MINOR}.{MICRO}` (or `MMM` for short).


## Releasing a new minor version

This is the most common type of release. Use it when neither major nor micro
update applies.

- Create a new local branch called `rel-{MAJOR}.{MINOR+1}` on top of `master`.
- In the `__version__.py` modify the version to `{MAJOR}.{MINOR+1}.0` (call
  this `MN0` for short).
- Update the `CHANGELOG.md`: the
    ```
    ### [Unreleased](https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/compare/HEAD...v{MMM})
    ```
  line at the top of the file should become
    ```
    ### [Unreleased](https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/compare/HEAD...v{MN0})
    ### [v{MN0}](https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/compare/v{MN0}...v{MMM} — {DATE})
    ```
  where `DATE` is the today's date. Note that the date is separated from the
  version by an em-dash (—), not the simple dash (-).
- Look through the changelog entries being released, and fix any grammar,
  style or spelling mistakes, also check for omissions.
- Update the "Installation" section in `README.md` to point to the new
  latest version of the package. (This step can be removed after #952 is
  implemented).
- Commit the changes with commit message `Release v{MN0}` and push the branch.
  On GitHub, create a new pull request from this branch.
- Wait for the PR to finish all tests / checks successfully. If not, push
  additional commits into this branch to fix any emergent problems.
- Merge the PR into master, but **DO NOT delete the branch**. This branch
  should be kept forever.
- Go to Jenkins and open the Console Output (make sure to be outside of 
  BlueOcean UI). On the very bottom, there should be a prompt whether this 
  build should be promoted (if the prompt is not there, the build might be 
  still in progress or has failed). Click proceed — this will upload the 
  artifacts to `s3://h2o-release/datatable/stable/datatable-{MN0}/` and 
  draft a GitHub release. 
- Go to [Releases](https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/releases) on GitHub — 
  there should be a draft of the latest release. Click `Edit`. Review the 
  changelog and artifacts, and if everything is correct click 
  `Publish Release` on the bottom of the page.
- ??? use `twine upload` to make the new release available on PyPi



## Releasing a new micro version

Micro releases are uncommon. Use them only when you need to patch an existing
version with some bug fixes. Do not add new functionality into a patch release
(unless in unusual circumstances).

- If you need to patch version `{MAJOR}.{MINOR}.{MICRO}`, start by checking out
  the branch `rel-{MAJOR}.{MINOR}`.
- Cherry-pick any commits that you need into this branch from master (or from
  any other branch).
- In the `__version__.py` file change the version to `{MAJOR}.{MINOR}.{MICRO+1}`
  (call it `MMN`).
- Update the `CHANGELOG.md` by adding a new line with
    ```
    ### [v{MMN}](https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/compare/v{MMN}...v{MMM} — {DATE})
    ```
  where `DATE` is the current date. This line should be at the top of the file
  immediately preceding the `[v{MMM}] ...` line. Add a description of the
  changes being introduced in this patch.
- Commit the changes, and push the commit to GitHub.
- Wait for tests to finish (fix problems if some checks fail), then go to Jenkins 
  and do the same procedure as in case of new minor version (approve the prompt 
  in console, review and publish the GitHub release draft).
- ???



## Releasing a new major version

This is the rarest type of release. We should probably aim to release a new
major version every half-a-year or every year.

Otherwise, major version does not differ much from the minor version update:
change the version number to `{MAJOR+1}.0.0`. In addition to steps outlined
in the minor version release section, the following might be needed:

- Look through the code for places that say
    - "will be removed in version {MAJOR+1}"
    - "will be changed in version {MAJOR+1}"
    - "will become deprecated in version {MAJOR+1}"
    
  and make those changes accordingly.
  
- Update `CHANGELOG.md` noting all functionality that was removed/ changed/
  deprecated.
  
- Publish a blog post outlining all main improvements since the previous major
  release.
  
- Make a twitter announcement on @pydatatable

Commit message:

Update the README file for release process (#1099)

ci/README.md, after:

<!---
  This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
  License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
  file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.
-->

# Outline of the release process

Current version of `datatable` can be found in the `datatable/__version__.py`
file. In the description below, this version will be denoted as
`{MAJOR}.{MINOR}.{MICRO}` (or `MMM` for short).


## Releasing a new minor version

This is the most common type of release. Use it when neither major nor micro
update applies.

- Create a new local branch called `rel-{MAJOR}.{MINOR+1}` on top of `master`.
- In the `__version__.py` modify the version to `{MAJOR}.{MINOR+1}.0` (call
  this `MN0` for short).
- Update the `CHANGELOG.md`: the
    ```
    ### [Unreleased](https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/compare/HEAD...v{MMM})
    ```
  line at the top of the file should become
    ```
    ### [Unreleased](https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/compare/HEAD...v{MN0})
    ### [v{MN0}](https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/compare/v{MN0}...v{MMM} — {DATE})
    ```
  where `DATE` is the today's date. Note that the date is separated from the
  version by an em-dash (—), not the simple dash (-).
- Look through the changelog entries being released, and fix any grammar,
  style or spelling mistakes, also check for omissions.
- Update the "Installation" section in `README.md` to point to the new
  latest version of the package. (This step can be removed after #952 is
  implemented).
- Commit the changes with commit message `Release v{MN0}` and push the branch.
  On GitHub, create a new pull request from this branch.
- Wait for the PR to finish all (but one) tests / checks successfully. If not,
  push additional commits into this branch to fix any emergent problems. One
  check will remain in the "pending" state until you manually complete it -
  see the next step.
- Click on the pending task to go to Jenkins. On the very bottom, there should
  be a prompt whether this build should be promoted (if the prompt is not there,
  the build might be still in progress or has failed). Click proceed — this
  will upload the artifacts to `s3://h2o-release/datatable/stable/datatable-{MN0}/`
  and draft a GitHub release.
- Merge the PR into master, but **DO NOT delete the branch**. This branch
  should be kept forever.
- Go to [Releases](https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/releases) on GitHub —
  there should be a new latest release. Review the changelog and artifacts, and
  check that everything is in order.
- From the Release page download 3 artifacts: one `.tar.gz` source distribution,
  and two `_macosx_*.whl` distributions (for python 3.5 and 3.6). Then upload
  them onto PyPI:
  ```
  ls ~/Downloads/datatable-{MN0}*
  twine upload ~/Downloads/datatable-{MN0}*
  ```
- go to https://pypi.org/manage/project/datatable/releases/ and check that the
  release was uploaded successfully.
- ??? documentation update



## Releasing a new micro version

Micro releases are uncommon. Use them only when you need to patch an existing
version with some bug fixes. Do not add new functionality into a patch release
(unless in unusual circumstances).

- If you need to patch version `{MAJOR}.{MINOR}.{MICRO}`, start by checking out
  the branch `rel-{MAJOR}.{MINOR}`.
- Cherry-pick any commits that you need into this branch from master (or from
  any other branch).
- In the `__version__.py` file change the version to `{MAJOR}.{MINOR}.{MICRO+1}`
  (call it `MMN`).
- Update the `CHANGELOG.md` by adding a new line with
    ```
    ### [v{MMN}](https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/compare/v{MMN}...v{MMM} — {DATE})
    ```
  where `DATE` is the current date. This line should be at the top of the file
  immediately preceding the `[v{MMM}] ...` line. Add a description of the
  changes being introduced in this patch.
- Commit the changes, and push the commit to GitHub.
- Wait for tests to finish (fix problems if some checks fail), then go to Jenkins
  and do the same procedure as in case of new minor version (approve the prompt
  in console, review and publish the GitHub release draft).
- ???



## Releasing a new major version

This is the rarest type of release. We should probably aim to release a new
major version every half-a-year or every year.

Otherwise, major version does not differ much from the minor version update:
change the version number to `{MAJOR+1}.0.0`. In addition to steps outlined
in the minor version release section, the following might be needed:

- Look through the code for places that say
    - "will be removed in version {MAJOR+1}"
    - "will be changed in version {MAJOR+1}"
    - "will become deprecated in version {MAJOR+1}"

  and make those changes accordingly.

- Update `CHANGELOG.md` noting all functionality that was removed/ changed/
  deprecated.

- Publish a blog post outlining all main improvements since the previous major
  release.

- Make a twitter announcement on @pydatatable
