docs/ftrl.rst, before:

FTRL
====

This section describes the FTRL (Follow the Regularized Leader) model as implemented in DataTable.

FTRL Model Information
----------------------

The Follow the Regularized Leader (FTRL) model is a DataTable implementation of 
the FTRL-Proximal online learning 
`algorithm <https://research.google.com/pubs/archive/41159.pdf>`__
for binomial logistic regression. It uses a
`hashing trick <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feature_hashing>`__
for feature vectorization and the
`Hogwild approach 
<https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~brecht/papers/hogwildTR.pdf>`__
for parallelization. FTRL for multinomial classification and continuous 
targets are implemented experimentally.

Create an FTRL Model
--------------------

The FTRL model is implemented as the ``Ftrl`` Python class, which is a part of
``datatable.models``, so to use the model you should first do

::

  from datatable.models import Ftrl

and then create a model as

::

  ftrl_model = Ftrl()
  
  
FTRL Model Parameters
---------------------

The FTRL model requires a list of parameters for training and making predictions,
namely:

-  ``alpha`` – learning rate, defaults to ``0.005``.
-  ``beta`` – beta parameter, defaults to ``1.0``.
-  ``lambda1`` – L1 regularization parameter, defaults to ``0.0``.
-  ``lambda2`` – L2 regularization parameter, defaults to ``1.0``.
-  ``nbins`` – the number of bins for the hashing trick, defaults to ``1000000``.
-  ``nepochs`` – the number of epochs to train the model for, defaults to ``1``.
-  ``interactions`` – whether to enable second order feature interactions, defaults to ``False``.

If some parameters need to be changed, this can be done either
when creating the model, as

::

  ftrl_model = Ftrl(alpha = 0.1, nbins = 100, interactions = False)
  
or, if the model already exists, as

::

  ftrl_model.alpha = 0.1
  ftrl_model.nbins = 100
  ftrl_model.interactions = False

If some parameters were not set explicitely, they will be assigned the default
values.


Training a Model
----------------

Use the ``fit()`` method to train a model for a binomial logistic regression problem:

::

  ftrl_model.fit(X, y)
  
where ``X`` is a frame of shape ``(nrows, ncols)`` to be trained on,
and ``y`` is a frame of shape ``(nrows, 1)`` having a ``bool`` type
of the target column.


Resetting a Model
-----------------

Use the ``reset()`` method to reset a model:

::

  ftrl_model.reset()

This will reset model weights, but it will not affect learning parameters.
To reset parameters to default values, you can do

::

  ftrl_model.params = Ftrl().params
  

Making Predictions
------------------

Use the ``predict()`` method to make predictions:

::

  targets = ftrl_model.predict(X)
  
where ``X`` is a frame of shape ``(nrows, ncols)`` to make predictions for.
``X`` should have the same number of columns as the training frame.
The ``predict()`` method returns a new frame of shape ``(nrows, 1)`` with
the predicted probability for each row of frame ``X``.


Feature Importances
-------------------

To estimate feature importances, the overall weight contributions are
calculated feature-wise during training and predicting. Feature importances
can be accessed as

::

  fi = ftrl_model.feature_importances
  
where ``fi`` will be a frame of shape ``(nfeatures, 2)`` containing
feature names and their importances, that are normalized to [0; 1] range.


Further Reading
---------------

For detailed help, please also refer to ``help(Ftrl)``.

Commit message:

Add supported types by FTRL to docs

docs/ftrl.rst, after:

FTRL
====

This section describes the FTRL (Follow the Regularized Leader) model as implemented in DataTable.

FTRL Model Information
----------------------

The Follow the Regularized Leader (FTRL) model is a DataTable implementation of 
the FTRL-Proximal online learning 
`algorithm <https://research.google.com/pubs/archive/41159.pdf>`__
for binomial logistic regression. It uses a
`hashing trick <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feature_hashing>`__
for feature vectorization and the
`Hogwild approach 
<https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~brecht/papers/hogwildTR.pdf>`__
for parallelization. FTRL for multinomial classification and continuous 
targets are implemented experimentally.

Create an FTRL Model
--------------------

The FTRL model is implemented as the ``Ftrl`` Python class, which is a part of
``datatable.models``, so to use the model you should first do

::

  from datatable.models import Ftrl

and then create a model as

::

  ftrl_model = Ftrl()
  
  
FTRL Model Parameters
---------------------

The FTRL model requires a list of parameters for training and making predictions,
namely:

-  ``alpha`` – learning rate, defaults to ``0.005``.
-  ``beta`` – beta parameter, defaults to ``1.0``.
-  ``lambda1`` – L1 regularization parameter, defaults to ``0.0``.
-  ``lambda2`` – L2 regularization parameter, defaults to ``1.0``.
-  ``nbins`` – the number of bins for the hashing trick, defaults to ``1000000``.
-  ``nepochs`` – the number of epochs to train the model for, defaults to ``1``.
-  ``interactions`` – whether to enable second order feature interactions, defaults to ``False``.

If some parameters need to be changed, this can be done either
when creating the model, as

::

  ftrl_model = Ftrl(alpha = 0.1, nbins = 100, interactions = False)
  
or, if the model already exists, as

::

  ftrl_model.alpha = 0.1
  ftrl_model.nbins = 100
  ftrl_model.interactions = False

If some parameters were not set explicitely, they will be assigned the default
values.


Training a Model
----------------

Use the ``fit()`` method to train a model for a binomial logistic regression problem:

::

  ftrl_model.fit(X, y)
  
where ``X`` is a frame of shape ``(nrows, ncols)`` to be trained on,
and ``y`` is a frame of shape ``(nrows, 1)`` having a ``bool`` type
of the target column. The following DataTable column types are supported 
for the ``X`` frame: ``bool``, ``int``, ``real`` and ``str``.


Resetting a Model
-----------------

Use the ``reset()`` method to reset a model:

::

  ftrl_model.reset()

This will reset model weights, but it will not affect learning parameters.
To reset parameters to default values, you can do

::

  ftrl_model.params = Ftrl().params
  

Making Predictions
------------------

Use the ``predict()`` method to make predictions:

::

  targets = ftrl_model.predict(X)
  
where ``X`` is a frame of shape ``(nrows, ncols)`` to make predictions for.
``X`` should have the same number of columns as the training frame.
The ``predict()`` method returns a new frame of shape ``(nrows, 1)`` with
the predicted probability for each row of frame ``X``.


Feature Importances
-------------------

To estimate feature importances, the overall weight contributions are
calculated feature-wise during training and predicting. Feature importances
can be accessed as

::

  fi = ftrl_model.feature_importances
  
where ``fi`` will be a frame of shape ``(nfeatures, 2)`` containing
feature names and their importances, that are normalized to [0; 1] range.


Further Reading
---------------

For detailed help, please also refer to ``help(Ftrl)``.
