docs/index.rst, before:

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/datatable.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/datatable/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/datatable.svg
   :target: https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/blob/master/LICENSE 

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/h2oai/datatable.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/h2oai/datatable

\

Introduction to Datatable
=========================

H2O's Datatable is a Python package for manipulating 2-dimensional tabular data structures (aka data frames). It is close in spirit to `pandas <https://github.com/pandas-dev/pandas>`__ or `SFrame <https://github.com/turi-code/SFrame>`__; however we put specific emphasis on speed and big data support. As the name suggests, the package is closely related to R's `data.table <https://github.com/Rdatatable/data.table>`__ and attempts to mimic its core algorithms and API.

Currently `datatable` is in the Alpha stage and is undergoing active development. The API may be unstable; some of the core features are incomplete and/or missing. 

**Have Questions?**

If you have questions about using Driverless AI, post them on the `H2O Stream Google Group <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/h2ostream>`__.


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Installation

   install

Commit message:

Adding the "Using datatable" section

docs/index.rst, after:

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/datatable.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/datatable/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/datatable.svg
   :target: https://github.com/h2oai/datatable/blob/master/LICENSE 

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/h2oai/datatable.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/h2oai/datatable

\

Introduction to Datatable
=========================

H2O's `datatable` is a Python package for manipulating 2-dimensional tabular data structures (aka data frames). It is close in spirit to `pandas <https://github.com/pandas-dev/pandas>`__ or `SFrame <https://github.com/turi-code/SFrame>`__; however we put specific emphasis on speed and big data support. As the name suggests, the package is closely related to R's `data.table <https://github.com/Rdatatable/data.table>`__ and attempts to mimic its core algorithms and API.

Currently `datatable` is in the Alpha stage and is undergoing active development. The API may be unstable; some of the core features are incomplete and/or missing. 

**Contributing**

``datatable`` is an open source project released under the Mozilla Public Licence v2. Open Source projects live by their user and developer communities. We welcome and encourage your contributions of any kind!

No matter what your skill set or level of engagement is with ``datatable``, you can help others by improving the ecosystem of documentation, bug report and feature request tickets, and code. We invite anyone who is interested to contribute, whether through pull requests, or tests, or GitHub issues, API suggestions, or generic discussion.

**Have Questions?**

If you have questions about using Driverless AI, post them on the `H2O Stream Google Group <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/h2ostream>`__.


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Installation

   install
   using-datatable
