
.. changelog::
  :version: 0.3.1
  :released: 2018-04-20
  :wheels: https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/f5/df/08d765bff48d8f2630314eb5b6e703798f765a9952c0a94495a05ea13ffd/datatable-0.3.1-cp35-cp35m-macosx_10_6_x86_64.whl
           https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/95/f6/4798ab9418eecea6adb6f060f27e254c6a185352e8a4539ee6c64d5efe8c/datatable-0.3.1-cp36-cp36m-macosx_10_6_intel.whl
           https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/fd/98/a881ebd763f8785c4df59518f67f3703c7194f496040c9a472982fb8544d/datatable-0.3.1.tar.gz

  General
  -------
  .. current-module:: datatable


  -[enh] Added ability to delete rows from a view Frame.

  -[enh] Implemented function ``countna()`` function for ``obj64`` columns.

  -[new] New option ``dt.options.core_logger`` to help debug datatable.

  -[new] New Frame method :meth:`dt.Frame.materialize()` to convert a view Frame
    into a "real" one. This method is noop if applied to a non-view Frame.

  -[enh] Added several internal options to fine-tune the performance of sorting
    algorithm.

  -[enh] Significantly improved performance of sorting doubles.

  -[enh] :func:`fread` can now read string columns that are larger than 2GB in
    size.

  -[enh] :func:`fread` can now accept a list/tuple of stypes for its ``columns``
    parameter.

  -[enh] Improved logic for auto-assigning column names when they are missing.

  -[enh] :func:`fread` now supports reading files that contain NUL characters.

  -[new] Added global settings ``options.frame.names_auto_index`` and
    ``options.frame.names_auto_prefix`` to control automatic column name
    generation in a Frame.

  -[enh] Eliminated all ``assert()`` statements from C code, and replaced them
    with exception throws.

  -[api] When creating a column of "object" type, we will now coerce float NaN
    values into ``None``.

  -[api] Renamed :func:`fread`'s parameter ``strip_white`` into
    ``strip_whitespace``.

  -[api] Default column names, if none given by the user, are "C0", "C1", ...
    for both :func:`fread` and :class:`Frame` constructor.

  -[api] function-valued ``columns`` parameter in :func:`fread` has been
    changed: if previously the function was invoked for every column, now it
    receives the list of all columns at once, and is expected to return a
    modified list (or dict/set/etc). Each column description in the list
    that the function receives carries the columns name and stype, in the
    future ``format`` field will also be added.

  -[fix] :func:`fread` will no longer consume excessive amounts of memory when
    reading a file with too many columns and few rows.

  -[fix] fixed a possible crash when reading CSV file containing long string
    fields.

  -[fix] :func:`fread` NA fields with whitespace were not recognized correctly.

  -[fix] :func:`fread` will no longer emit error messages or type-bump variables
    due to incorrectly recognized chunk boundaries.

  -[fix] Fixed a crash when rbinding string column with non-string: now an
    exception will be thrown instead.

  -[fix] Calling any stats function on a column of obj64 type will no longer
    result in a crash.

  -[fix] Columns/rows slices no longer fail on an empty Frame.

  -[fix] Fixed crash when materializing a view frame containing obj64 columns.

  -[fix] Fixed erroneous grouping calculations.

  -[fix] Fixed sorting of 1-row view frames.


  .. contributors::

    38  @st-pasha
    3   @abal5
    2   @michal-raska
    1   @mmalohlava
    1   @CreatureDev    <Patrick Rice>
    --
    26  @st-pasha
    5   @arnocandel
    1   @nkalonia1
